[MUSIC]
In this video,
we're going to start using DAX measures.
We've already seen a huge range of
benefits to working with power pivot.
But alongside the ability to work
with multiple related data sets,
the ability to use DAX measures
is one of the most powerful.
DAX, which stands for
data analysis expressions allows us to
perform advanced analytics on our data.
Currently, there are over
250 DAX functions.
But the great news is a lot of them
are very similar to Excel functions, and
so it's not a very steep learning curve.
We've actually already used DAX
to create a calculated column.
You may recall we used
the DAX year function,
which was almost identical
to the Excel year function.
Let's have a look at another example.
We're going to come back
to our data model, so
onto your Power Pivot ribbon and Manage.
And we're going to come to
our Calendar table, and
can I ask you to click
into the Month column?
If you have a look in your formula bar,
you'll see this is actually a calculated
column, and that calculation
may look quite familiar to you.
But in Excel, we use the text function,
whereas in DAX,
we use the format function.
They do exactly the same thing.
So if I were to only want
the abbreviated month name,
I can come into the formula,
remove one of the M's and press Enter.
And there is my abbreviated month format.
So DAX is very useful for
creating calculated columns.
But we want to keep our
calculated columns to a minimum,
because they do add
bulk to our data model.
So another option and arguably more
powerful one is to work with measures.
Now that term may not be very familiar
to you, but the concept probably is.
Can I ask you to press Alt +
Tab to come back into Excel?
And we're going to come to our
Pivot Table Analyze ribbon, and
we're just going to clear the filter.
So I'm going to come to Clear,
and Clear Filters.
And now in our field list,
I'm going to grab the subtotal.
Don't unselected it,
we're just going to click on it, drag and
drop it into the values area.
That has now added up the order totals
before freight for each of my countries.
If I click in Australia and Drill Down,
it's showing me the totals for
my states in Australia.
And if I click Drill Up,
we're back to countries.
That is a measure.
A measure is basically a dynamic
calculation where the results change
depending on the context.
And in this case,
the context is the filters.
The measures we're working
with at the moment,
are referred to as implicit measures.
We imply we need the measure by
adding that field to our Pivot.
But implicit measures have
some very real limitations.
For one thing, when we add them,
we often get a name we don't like,
which we then have to go and change.
So this is a silly name,
Active customers would describe it better.
I might also need to change my formatting,
I might need to change my calculation.
And the problem is when I then remove that
and add it again, or add it to another
pivot table, I'm going to have to go
through that whole process again.
So not very efficient.
More of a limitation however is I can't
use those measures to calculate other
measures unless they're
already in the Pivot Table.
And I have a very limited set
of calculations available to me.
DAX measures addresses
all of these problems.
How do we create one though?
Well, you actually have two options.
From 2016 onwards, you can actually
do it directly in the Pivot Table.
But you can also do it in the data model.
So let's start with looking at that.
I'm going to press Alt + Tab again, and
I'm going to come to my
Orders table this time.
And I'd like to replace that
implicit measure on subtotal with
an explicit measure.
You can create your measures
anywhere underneath the data, so
in the section below the data.
And I'm going to click underneath
the SubTotal column and
I could start typing the calculation in,
but even easier.
If I come up to my ribbon you'll see
there's an option to AutoSum, and
from the drop down,
there are a few other options as well.
Now I should just want to sum,
so I'm going to click AutoSum.
And having a look in my formula bar now,
it has summed up the SubTotal.
And it's called the measure sum
of SubTotal2, which is not great.
So I'm going to select that name and
replace it, and
I'm going to call this Order Total.
Now please note the syntax after the name,
its colon equals, and
then the calculation.
Don't delete the colon or
it won't work so well.
Now coming to my SubTotal column, I'm
going to just make that quite a lot wider.
At the moment, there are no filters,
so the context is it's
giving me the total orders.
I'm not that excited about
all those decimal places, so
I'd like to change the formatting.
With the value selected,
we're going to come back into our ribbon,
find the Format, and instead of General,
we're going to change it to Currency.
So I've now explicitly declared what I'm
calling it, what the calculation is, and
what the formatting is.
I'm ready to use it in my Pivot Table.
Let's test it out.
Alt + Tab to come back into Excel.
We're going to scroll down into our Orders
again, and you'll see a new item has been
added at the bottom, and
it's got this little fx in front of it.
That tells us that is an explicit measure,
and if I select that option,
it has been added to my values section,
and there are my order totals.
The values are identical to our
implicit that the formatting and
the name are a lot better.
So I think I'm going to be using
the explicit from here on out.
I'm going to come to some of SubTotal2 and
remove that from the Pivot Table.
Now one of the other main benefits
is our range of calculations.
So let's say for example,
I want to know the median order price.
Pivot Tables give us the option to
calculate an average, but not a median.
Fortunately, DAX can help us out.
This time, we're going to create the
calculation directly in the Pivot Table.
So I'm going to come to my pivot field
list, I'm going to find the Orders table,
that's where I'm adding my measure.
And I'm going to right-click and
select Add measure.
The first thing I need to do
was give my measure names.
So I'm going to click in Measure Name, and
I'm going to call this Medium Order Value.
Then in my formula box, I need to type my
calculation and the DAX calculation for
median is the same as the Excel.
So I can literally type med and
tab to select median.
It then wants to know what I
want to get a median of, and
the great news is the autocomplete
works really well here.
So if I type sub for subtotal,
I see there's my orders subtotal,
I'm going to press Tab to select that.
By putting the table name in front,
it means there won't be any confusion
if I've used the word SubTotal in
another table, so that's good practice.
Now I'm going to close my bracket, let's
click in after and close the bracket, and
I want to give it a proper format.
So coming to category, I'm going to select
Currency, 0 decimal places is fine.
Now back in our pivot field list, you'll
see the Median Order Measure has been
added, and when I select it,
it adds it to my Pivot Table.
So we're no longer limited in terms of
the calculations we can use in our pivots.
We can create these measures and
use them in many different pivots.
You don't actually have to have the
measure in the pivot to use it in another
calculation.
And as we saw in the last video,
you can even use these measures
in your cube functions.
So we're starting to unlock
the real power of Power Pivot.
As I've mentioned,
there are lot of decks functions.
Unfortunately, Microsoft has provided
us with the fairly comprehensive
reference guide.
I'm just going to show that to you now so
you can either just do a Google or
we have provided a link to
this in this week's toolbox.
So take a moment to checkout some of
the data analysis expressions available.
And we'll be looking at some
more options in the next video.
[MUSIC]